#### DSI: University of Chicago – Internet Equity Initiative

Meeting Notes									        January 13, 2023
Attendees: James T., Brendon K., Kaya B., Maia B., Victoria K., Nicole M.

Nicole Marwell Introduction: 
+ Professor at the Crown School 
+ Trained as a ethnographic sociologist (qualitative researcher)
+ PI for the Internet Equity Initiative

---

Ideal outcome of project: Move beyond description to association/causal inference analysis
+ Connect to outcomes in health, education, and other variables of interest
+ Implement multi-level modeling (lead by post-Doc)

---

Project Priorities: 
+ Items that Nick Ross provided are the ideal focus (with one addition below).
+ Neighborhood boundaries are determined by local governments, and it varies considerably. Analysis can still be conducted at this level, however analysis by Census tract should be the focus. 
+ Rationale: Research principles – standardization of scale/size using the tract level. Additionally, other research focuses on census tract, and we want our conclusion to be applicable to that literature. 

Questions:
+ How are we determining the race variable? 
  + Hispanic coding: U.S. Census asks Hispanic origin question AND race (not mutually exclusive, but race does not include Hispanic).
  + Convention: Pull out people who answer Yes to Hispanic question, then use this information (subtract Hispanic “’race” group from overall group) to identify non-Hispanic “race” group. 
  + Action: We need to go back and determine how the % black and % hispanic were calculated.
+ What year of data are we planning to use? 
  + Challenge: U.S. Census ACS is a sample survey collected every year, however there is a lot of noise in a single year 🡪 point-estimate for that year could be inaccurate. 
  + Convention: Use last five-year estimates to reduce the noise and increase the precision of the point-estimate. 
  + However, our focus is on how changes wrought by the pandemic influenced broadband connectivity. We want to analyze change over-time due to the exogenous shock.
  + Solution: Pre-pandemic five-year (2014 –  end 2019), Pandemic years (2021| 2022) and most recent five-year estimates (START – 2022). 
